6.
Recognize the need to strengthen synergies between international
migration and development at the global, regional and national levels;
7.
Recognize the efforts made by the international community in addressing
relevant aspects of international migration and development, through different
initiatives, both within the United Nations system and in other processes,
particularly the Global Forum on Migration and Development and regional
processes, as well as in drawing on the expertise of the International Organization
for Migration and other member agencies of the Global Migration Group;
8.
Acknowledge the important contribution of migration in realizing the
Millennium Development Goals, and recognize that human mobility is a key factor
for sustainable development which should be adequately considered in the
elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda;
9.
Acknowledge the important role that migrants play as partners in the
development of countries of origin, transit and destination and recognize the need to
improve public perceptions of migrants and migration;
10. Reaffirm the need to promote and protect effectively the human rights
and fundamental freedoms of all migrants, regardless of their migration status,
especially those of women and children, and to address international migration
through international, regional or bilateral cooperation and dialogue and through a
comprehensive and balanced approach, recognizing the roles and responsibilities of
countries of origin, transit and destination in promoting and protecting the human
rights of all migrants, and avoiding approaches that might aggravate their
vulnerability;
11. Recognize that women and girls account for almost half of all
international migrants at the global level, and the need to address the special
situation and vulnerability of migrant women and girls by, inter alia, incorporating a
gender perspective into policies and strengthening national laws, institutions and
programmes to combat gender-based violence, including trafficking in persons and
discrimination against women and girls;
12. Emphasize in this regard the need to establish appropriate measures for
the protection of women migrant workers in all sectors, including those involved in
domestic work;
13. Express the commitment to protect the human rights of migrant children,
given their vulnerability, particularly unaccompanied migrant children, and to
provide for their health, education and psychosocial development, ensuring that the
best interests of the child are a primary consideration in policies of integration,
return and family reunification;
14. Emphasize the need to respect and promote international labour
standards as appropriate, and respect the rights of migrants in their workplaces;
15. Note the contribution of applicable international conventions, including
the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers
and Members of Their Families, 1 to the international system for the protection of
migrants;

_______________
1

United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2220, No. 39481.

