A/RES/68/4

Declaration of the High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development

6.
Recognize the need to strengthen synergies between international
migration and development at the global, regional and national levels;
7.
Recognize the efforts made by the international community in addressing
relevant aspects of international migration and development, through different
initiatives, both within the United Nations system and in other processes,
particularly the Global Forum on Migration and Development and regional
processes, as well as in drawing on the expertise of the International Organization
for Migration and other member agencies of the Global Migration Group;
8.
Acknowledge the important contribution of migration in realizing the
Millennium Development Goals, and recognize that human mobility is a key factor
for sustainable development which should be adequately considered in the
elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda;
9.
Acknowledge the important role that migrants play as partners in the
development of countries of origin, transit and destination and recognize the need to
improve public perceptions of migrants and migration;
10. Reaffirm the need to promote and protect effectively the human rights
and fundamental freedoms of all migrants, regardless of their migration status,
especially those of women and children, and to address international migration
through international, regional or bilateral cooperation and dialogue and through a
comprehensive and balanced approach, recognizing the roles and responsibilities of
countries of origin, transit and destination in promoting and protecting the human
rights of all migrants, and avoiding approaches that might aggravate their
vulnerability;
11. Recognize that women and girls account for almost half of all
international migrants at the global level, and the need to address the special
situation and vulnerability of migrant women and girls by, inter alia, incorporating a
gender perspective into policies and strengthening national laws, institutions and
programmes to combat gender-based violence, including trafficking in persons and
discrimination against women and girls;
12. Emphasize in this regard the need to establish appropriate measures for
the protection of women migrant workers in all sectors, including those involved in
domestic work;
13. Express the commitment to protect the human rights of migrant children,
given their vulnerability, particularly unaccompanied migrant children, and to
provide for their health, education and psychosocial development, ensuring that the
best interests of the child are a primary consideration in policies of integration,
return and family reunification;
14. Emphasize the need to respect and promote international labour
standards as appropriate, and respect the rights of migrants in their workplaces;
15. Note the contribution of applicable international conventions, including
the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers
and Members of Their Families, 1 to the international system for the protection of
migrants;

_______________
1

2/4

United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2220, No. 39481.

Declaration of the High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development

A/RES/68/4

16. Strongly condemn the acts, manifestations and expressions of racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance against migrants and the
stereotypes often applied to them, including on the basis of religion or belief, and
urge States to apply and, where needed, reinforce the existing laws when
xenophobic or intolerant acts, manifestations or expressions against migrants occur,
in order to eradicate impunity for those who commit those acts;
17. Reiterate our commitment to prevent and combat trafficking in persons,
protect victims of trafficking, prevent and combat migrant smuggling and protect
migrants from exploitation and other abuses, stress the need to establish or upgrade,
as appropriate, national and regional anti-human trafficking policies and to reinforce
cooperation on prevention, the prosecution of traffickers and the protection of
victims of trafficking, and encourage Member States to ratify, accede to and
implement relevant international instruments on preventing and combating
trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants;
18. Encourage Member States to cooperate on mobility programmes that
facilitate safe, orderly and regular migration, including through labour mobility;
19. Recognize the particular vulnerabilities, circumstances and needs of
adolescents and young migrants, as well as their potential to build social, economic
and cultural bridges of cooperation and understanding across societies;
20. Recognize also all efforts made by Governments, all relevant bodies,
agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system, other relevant
intergovernmental, regional and subregional organizations, including the International
Organization for Migration and other organizations within the Global Migration
Group, and non-governmental stakeholders, including the private sector, in addressing
international migration and development for the benefit of both migrants and
societies; and bearing this goal in mind, further emphasize the need to strengthen
partnerships among all relevant stakeholders;
21. Stress the need to deepen the interaction between Governments and civil
society to find responses to the challenges and the opportunities posed by
international migration, and recognize the contribution of civil society, including
non-governmental organizations, to promoting the well-being of migrants and their
integration into societies, especially at times of extreme vulnerable conditions, and
the support of the international community to the efforts of such organizations;
22. Acknowledge the complexity of migratory flows and that international
migration movements also occur within the same geographical regions, and in this
context call for a better understanding of migration patterns across and within regions;
23. Recognize the importance of coordinated efforts of the international
community to assist and support migrants stranded in vulnerable situations and
facilitate, and cooperate on when appropriate, their voluntary return to their country
of origin, and call for practical and action-oriented initiatives aimed at identifying
and closing protection gaps;
24. Underline the right of migrants to return to their country of citizenship,
and recall that States must ensure that their returning nationals are duly received;
25. Recognize the need to consider the role that environmental factors may
play in migration;
26. Recognize the necessity to consider how the migration of highly skilled
persons, especially in the health, social and engineering sectors, affects the
development efforts of developing countries, and emphasize the need to consider
circular migration;
3/4

